MITOCW | L01-6002 So, one question to ask ourselves is, what is engineering? How do we define, what is engineering? Well, the definition I like to use is one put forth by Steve Senturia, one of our professors who is now retired.
He defined engineering to be the purposeful use of science.
All right, so what is 6.002 about? So, 6.002 is a first course in engineering.
And I like to view 6.002 as the gainful employment of Maxwell's equations.
Many of you have seen Maxwell's equations before.
Most of you should have.
And they are hard stuff.
6.002 is all about teaching you how to simplify our lives, make things simple.
So, if you can gainfully employ Maxwell's equations, gainfully employ the facts of nature to build very interesting systems.
So let me show you how the transition is made.
So, there's a world around us, nature, so we made some observations in nature.
We make measurements, and we can write down large tables of measurements.
MITOCW | L01-6002 所以，我们要问自己的一个问题是，什么是工程学？我们如何定义什么是工程学？嗯，我喜欢使用的定义是由史蒂夫·森图里亚提出的，他是我们现在已经退休的教授之一。
他将工程学定义为科学的有目的的运用。
好了，那么 6.002 是关于什么的呢？6.002 是一门工程学的入门课程。
我喜欢将 6.002 视为对麦克斯韦方程的有益运用。
你们中的许多人以前应该见过麦克斯韦方程。
大部分人应该都见过。
它们是很难的东西。
6.002 的目标是教你如何简化我们的生活，简化事物。
所以，如果你能有益地运用麦克斯韦方程，运用自然的事实来构建非常有趣的系统。
让我向你展示一下过渡是如何进行的。
所以，我们周围有一个世界，自然，我们对自然做出了一些观察。
我们进行测量，并且可以写下大量的测量表格。

 So, for example, we can take objects and measure the voltage across them, and look at the resulting current through the elements.
So, we may end up getting a bunch of values such as [CHALKBOARD].
So, we start out life with making measurements on what exists.
And we build a bunch of tables.
Now, we could directly take these tables, and based on observations of these tables, we could go ahead and build very interesting engineering systems that help us out in day-to-day lives.
But that's incredibly hard.
Imagine having to resort to a set of tables to do any kind of useful work.
So what we do as engineers, we first layer a level of abstraction.
We look at all the data, and somehow layer abstraction such that we can simplify or much more succinctly put in a simple equation or a simple statement what these numbers are telling us.
OK, so for example, our physics laws, so laws of physics for example are simply abstractions, the laws of abstractions.
所以，例如，我们可以拿起物体并测量其电压，并观察元件中的电流。
因此，我们可能会得到一堆像[CHALKBOARD]这样的数值。
因此，我们从对现有事物的测量开始生活。
并且我们建立了一堆表格。
现在，我们可以直接使用这些表格，并基于对这些表格的观察，可以构建非常有趣的工程系统，帮助我们日常生活中的工作。
但是这非常困难。
想象一下，必须使用一组表格来完成任何有用的工作。
所以作为工程师，我们首先添加了一层抽象层。
我们查看所有的数据，并以某种方式层层抽象，从而可以简化或更简洁地用一个简单的方程或简单的陈述来解释这些数字给我们的信息。
好的，所以例如，我们的物理定律，例如物理定律只不过是抽象的定律。

 So, these sets of numbers can be codified by Ohm's law, for example, V is equal to RI, the voltage current, relates to the resistance of the object.
So, V is equal to RI is a law that succinctly describes a set of experiments, and replaces a large number of tables with a very simple statement.
You could call this the law, or you could call it an abstraction.
OK so you see laws of physics, call them abstractions of physics if you like.
Similarly, there are Maxwell's equations and so on and so forth.
So, this is what is.
This is what's out there.
OK, and a law as an abstraction describe the properties of nature, as we see it, in some succinct form.
Now, if you want to go and build useful things, we could take these abstractions, take Maxwell's equations, and go and build things.
But it's hard.
It's really, really hard.
And what you learn in, at MIT is this place is all about simplifying things.
Take complicated things, build layers of abstraction, and simplify things so that we can build useful systems.
所以，这组数字可以由欧姆定律进行编码，例如，V等于RI，电压电流与物体的电阻有关。
因此，V等于RI是一个简洁描述一组实验并用一个非常简单的表述代替大量表格的定律。
你可以称之为定律，或者你可以称之为抽象。
好吧，你看到物理定律，如果你愿意，可以称之为物理抽象。
同样地，还有麦克斯韦方程等等。
所以，这就是事实。
这就是外在的。
好吧，一个作为抽象的定律以一种简明扼要的形式描述了自然界的特性，正如我们看到的那样。
现在，如果你想要建造有用的东西，我们可以采用这些抽象概念，采用麦克斯韦方程，然后去建造东西。
但是这很困难。
真的，非常困难。
而你在麻省理工学院学到的就是简化事物的方法。
将复杂的事物进行层层抽象，并简化事物，以便我们可以构建有用的系统。

 Even in 6.002 we start life by making a huge leap from Maxwell's equations to a couple of very, very simple laws.
OK, I'm going to show you that leap that we will make today.
So, the first abstraction that we layer is called the lump circuit abstraction.
OK, in the lump circuit abstraction, what we do is we make a set of simplifications that allows us to view a set of objects as discrete or lumped elements.
So, we may, I will define voltage sources.
We'll define resistors.
We'll define capacitors, and so on.
OK, and I'm going to make the jump, and show you how we make the jump in a few minutes.
So, on that sort of abstraction, we then layer yet another abstract layer.
And let me call that the amplifier abstraction.
OK, remember, here we are absolutely down and dirty.
We are setting the probes, measuring objects, and building huge tables.
We abstracted things into simple laws, and life got a little better.
即使在6.002中，我们从麦克斯韦方程式跨越了一个巨大的距离，转向了几个非常非常简单的定律。
好的，我将展示我们今天将要进行的这个跳跃。
所以，我们所引入的第一个抽象概念被称为集总电路抽象。
在集总电路抽象中，我们进行了一系列简化，使我们能够将一组对象视为离散或集总元件。
因此，我们会定义电压源、电阻、电容等等。
我将在几分钟内展示我们如何进行这个跳跃。
在这种抽象之上，我们又添加了另一个抽象层。
让我称之为放大器抽象。
请记住，这里我们完全沉浸在实质性的工作中。
我们设置探针，测量物体，并建立巨大的表格。
我们将事物抽象为简单的定律，生活也变得更好了一些。

 OK, I'm going to show you can abstract things further out and build discrete objects, and, you could build even more interesting components called amplifiers and begin playing around with amplifiers.
OK, so when you are using amplifiers, you don't really have to worry about the details of Maxwell's equations.
OK, I'll give you some very simple abstract rules of behavior for an amplifier, and you can go build very interesting systems without really, really knowing how Maxwell's equations applies to that because you will be working at this abstract layer.
However, since you're engineers, and you are good at building such systems, it's very important for you to understand how we make this leap from the laws of physics into some of our very primitive engineering abstractions.
So, once we make the amplified abstraction in 6.002, by the way, 6.002 starts here.
We start from the laws of physics and then proceed all the way out.
So, once we talk about amplifiers we will take two pads.
好的，我要展示给你如何将事物抽象化并构建离散对象，而且，你还可以构建更有趣的组件，称之为放大器，并开始对放大器进行实验。
好的，使用放大器时，你不必太担心麦克斯韦方程的细节。
我将为你提供一些非常简单的放大器行为规则，你可以在不完全了解麦克斯韦方程如何应用的情况下构建非常有趣的系统，因为你将在这个抽象层上进行工作。
然而，由于你们是工程师，并且擅长构建这样的系统，了解我们如何将物理定律转化为一些很原始的工程抽象非常重要。
所以，一旦我们在6.002中进行了放大器的抽象，顺便说一句，6.002从这里开始。
我们从物理定律开始，然后一路推进。
所以，一旦我们谈论到放大器，我们会拿出两个引脚。

 On the amplifier, you will build the next abstraction called the digital abstraction.
OK, and with the digital abstraction, we will build new elements such as inverters and combinational gates, OK? So, notice we are building bigger, and bigger things, which have more and more complicated behavior inside them, but which are very simple to describe, right? So, following the digital abstraction, we will superimpose the combinational logic abstraction on top of that, and define functional blocks that look like this: some inputs, some function, some outputs.
The next abstraction on top of that will be the clock digital abstraction, where we will have some notion of time introduced into the system.
There will be a clock, and this will be some function.
And there will be a clock that introduces time into the sort of logic values that functions operate upon.
Following that, the next level of abstraction that we build is called instruction set abstraction.
在放大器上，你将构建下一个称为数字抽象的抽象层。
好的，通过数字抽象，我们将构建新的元件，如反相器和组合门，知道吗？因此，我们正在构建越来越大的东西，在其中有越来越复杂的行为，但它们非常容易描述，对吗？因此，在数字抽象之后，我们将在其上面叠加组合逻辑抽象，并定义看起来像这样的功能块：一些输入、一些函数、一些输出。
其上面的下一个抽象层将是时钟数字抽象，其中我们将引入时间的概念到系统中。
将有一个时钟，它将是某个函数。
并且会有一个时钟，它在函数操作的逻辑值中引入时间。
在此之后，我们构建的下一个抽象层被称为指令集抽象。

 OK, now you begin to see things that consumers get to look at.
Can someone give me an example of, or name an instruction set, or instruction set abstraction? Bingo.
So, x86 is one set of abstractions.
And in fact, in many universities, education could well start just by saying, OK, here's an abstraction.
These are the x86 instructions, OK? Some MIT gurus have designed this awesome little microprocessor, OK? So you just worry about, you take this abstraction layer here, the assembly instructions, and you go and build systems on top of that.
OK, so this is an abstraction layer called the x86 layer.
There are other abstraction layers.
In 6.004, you will learn about, I believe, the alpha or the beta, OK, and various other abstractions at this point.
So, 6.002 kind of goes until here.
6.002 takes me from the world of physics all the way to the world of interesting analog and digital systems.
好的，现在你开始看到消费者所看到的东西了。
能有人给我举个例子，或者说一个指令集或指令集抽象吗？太棒了。
那么，x86就是一组抽象。
实际上，在很多大学里，教育可以从这样开始，好了，这是一个抽象。
这些是x86指令，明白吗？一些麻省理工学院的专家们设计了这个很棒的微处理器，好吗？所以你只需要关注这个抽象层，也就是汇编指令，然后在其上构建系统。
好的，所以这个抽象层叫做x86层。
还有其他的抽象层。
在6.004课程中，你将了解到，我相信是alpha或者beta等其他的抽象。
所以，6.002课程一直延伸到这里。
6.002课程将我从物理世界带到了有趣的模拟和数字系统的世界。

 OK, 004, the course on computation structures, will show you how to build computers all the way from simple digital objects all the way to big systems.
Following that, you learn about language abstractions, Java, C, and other languages, and that's in 6.002.
And there are several other courses that will cover that.
Following this, you learn about software system abstractions, and software systems, you will learn about operating systems.
Any example of an operating system abstraction that people know out there? What's that? Linux.
What else? I'm just wondering how long I'll have to go before I hear what I want to hear.
[LAUGHTER] OK, so we have a bunch of software systems.
So, if we have a bunch of software systems, these are nothing but abstractions.
Linux simply implies a set of system calls that the programs must adhere to.
Windows is another set of system calls.
That's it.
And see how much money they made out of it? OK, it's all about abstraction layers, that all start from nature.
All right?
好的，004，计算结构课程将向你展示如何从简单的数字对象逐步构建计算机，直到大型系统。
接下来，你将学习语言抽象、Java、C和其他编程语言，这是在6.002课程中学习的内容。
还有几门其他课程也会涵盖这些内容。
此后，你将学习软件系统抽象和软件系统，你将了解操作系统。
大家知道操作系统抽象的例子有吗？什么例子？Linux。
还有其他的吗？我只是想知道在我听到我想要听到的内容之前还需要多久。
[笑声]好的，所以我们有许多软件系统。
因此，如果我们有许多软件系统，它们其实只是抽象。
Linux只是意味着程序必须遵循一组系统调用。
Windows是另一组系统调用。
就是这样。
你看到他们赚了多少钱吗？好的，这一切都是从自然开始的抽象层。
明白了吗？
 Build abstraction upon abstraction upon abstraction upon abstraction, and someone out here are lots of dollars.
OK, so based on these abstractions, we can then build useful things for human beings.
We can build very useful things, video games, so we can send space shuttles up, and a whole bunch of other systems.
But it's based on these abstraction layers.
What's unique about education at MIT? What's unique about 6.002 and EECS? Is to my knowledge, there are not many other places in the world where you will get an education in everything going all the way from nature to how to build very complicated analog and digital systems.
OK, we will show you layer upon layer upon layer upon layer, peel away the onion until you are down to raw nature, OK, through Maxwell's equations.
So, 6.002, 004, this is 033, OK, 6.170, and so on.
OK, the whole EECS is about building abstraction layers, one on top of the other.
So that's one path.
There's the analog path.
在抽象基础上层层构建、层层抽象，而在这其中，有人获得了大量的金钱。
好吧，基于这些抽象，我们可以为人类构建有用的事物。
我们可以构建非常有用的东西，如视频游戏，以便我们能将航天飞机发射到太空中，以及许多其他系统。
但这都是基于这些抽象层。
麻省理工学院的教育有何独特之处？6.002和EECS有何独特之处？以我所知，在世界上不会有很多其他地方可以获得从自然界到如何构建非常复杂的模拟和数字系统的教育。
好吧，我们会逐层展示、剥离洋葱皮，直到您接触到原始自然，通过麦克斯韦方程。
所以，6.002，004，这是033，6.170等等。
好吧，整个EECS都是关于在其上构建抽象层的。
这是一条路径。
还有模拟路径。

 The analog path would take an amplifier, and build an abstraction layer called the op-amp.
See how similar they all look? You know the amplifier, the inverter of the digital world, and the operational amplifier in the analog world, just different ways of looking at the same devices.
So, to build an analog system, to build an operational amplifier, and then, here we go end up building a whole bunch of different interesting analog system components.
OK, and these components might look like oscillators.
They might look like filters.
OK, they look like power supplies, a whole bunch of very interesting abstract components, which pulled together can then give you the next set of systems.
And these systems might be toasters, or say for example other analog systems like the various control systems for various power plants and so on and so forth, and ultimately, fun and dollars.
OK, so 6.002 is about going from physics all the way to this point.
模拟通路将采用放大器，并构建一个名为运算放大器的抽象层。
看它们是多么相似？你知道放大器是数字世界中的反相器，运算放大器是模拟世界中的反相器，只是以不同的方式看待相同的设备。
因此，要构建一个模拟系统，要构建一个运算放大器，然后，我们最终会构建一整套不同的有趣的模拟系统组件。
好的，这些组件可能看起来像振荡器。
它们可能看起来像滤波器。
好的，它们看起来像电源，一整套非常有趣的抽象组件，将它们汇集起来，然后可以带给你下一组系统。
而这些系统可能是烤面包机，或者例如其他模拟系统，如各种电厂的控制系统等等，最终，就是有趣和利益。
好的，所以6.002课程是关于从物理学一直到这一点的过程。

 We will build interesting analog systems, and take you up to interesting digital system components, from which 004 will take you all the way to building computer architectures.
So that, in a nutshell, kind of gives you a feel for the space of EECS.
OK, this chart here is almost a vignette of what EECS at MIT is all about.
And this is the world according to Agarwal, because he's teaching 002.
OK, so this is 6.002, and the rest of EECS is somewhere out there.
OK, so I'm going to do now is throughout this course; I want you to think about which part in this vignette we are in.
So, right now, I'm going to start here and take you here.
OK, and as you get closer and closer, things get simpler, and simpler, and simpler.
Still, the final abstractions are pedal, brake, steering wheel.
I mean, that's the abstraction to play a game, right, four or five very simple interfaces, and that's all you need to know.
And everybody in the world can play stuff.
So remember, this stuff is complicated.
我们将建立有趣的模拟系统，并引领您进入有趣的数字系统组件，从中004将带您一直走到构建计算机体系结构。
简而言之，这给您一种EECS领域的感觉。
好的，这张图几乎是MIT的EECS的一小部分景观。
这是Agarwal的世界，因为他正在教002。
好的，这就是6.002，而其他EECS部分就在那边。
好的，现在我要做的是在整个课程中，我希望您考虑我们当前所在的部分。
所以，现在，我要从这里开始带您到这里。
随着您越来越接近，事物变得越来越简单。
然而，最终的抽象仍然是踏板、刹车和方向盘。
我的意思是，这是玩游戏的抽象，对吧，只需要四五个非常简单的界面，这就是您需要知道的全部。
世界上每个人都可以玩这些东西。
所以请记住，这些东西很复杂。

 This stuff is very, very simple.
OK, and the more we build abstractions and come to this side, things get simpler and simpler.
So, a large part of what I'll cover today is make the biggest simplification.
The biggest simplification we will make his go from Maxwell's equation to some very, very simple algebraic rules.
OK, I did Maxwell's equations myself.
And I tell you, they were very interesting stuff but complicated.
I can't imagine building efficient systems using Maxwell's equations.
So, let's take an example, OK? So, let's say I have a battery.
Just switch to page three of your course notes.
And let's say I connect that to a bulb.
OK, and this is a wire.
And, the battery supplies some voltage, V, and I ask you a simple question.
What is the current through the bulb? OK, so here is something that I can build using objects.
I can pick a round from stores and so on.
And I can collect them up in this way, and ask the question, what is the current, I?
这个东西非常简单。
好的，我们构建抽象化并且接近这一侧，事情会变得越来越简单。
所以，我今天要讲的很大一部分内容是做出最大的简化。
我们所做的最大简化是从麦克斯韦方程组到一些非常简单的代数规则。
好的，我的确自己做过麦克斯韦方程组。
而且告诉你，它们是非常有趣但复杂的东西。
我无法想象使用麦克斯韦方程组来构建高效的系统。
所以，让我们举个例子，好吗？假设我有一个电池。
请翻到你的课堂笔记的第三页。
假设我将它连接到一个灯泡上。
好的，这是一根导线。
而电池提供一定的电压V，我问你一个简单的问题。
灯泡的电流是多少？好的，这是我可以用物品构建的东西。
我可以从商店买圆形的东西之类的。
然后按照这种方式将它们收集起来，然后问这个问题，电流是多少，I是多少？
 Now, if all you've done is learn about Maxwell's equations, you can roll up your sleeves and say, ah-ha! The first step is to write down all of Maxwell's equations, and you can say, del cross E is minus del and go on, and on, and on, OK, and write out all of Maxwell's equations and say, now how do I get from there to here? OK, it's very good.
You can do it.
OK, you can do it, but it's very complicated.
OK, so instead, what you're going to do is take the easy way.
So, what I want to remind you is that this course is actually very easy.
OK remember, we're going to be building abstraction upon abstraction to make your lives easier.
If you think your lives are getting more complicated, then you are not using intuition enough.
OK, just remember the big I word.
It's all about making things simple.
OK, so let me give you an analogy.
So, suppose you have an object.
OK, and I apply a force to the object.
It's an analogy, OK to get some insight into how to do this.
So, I say here's an object.
现在，如果你所做的一切就是学习麦克斯韦方程，你可以卷起袖子说，啊哈！
第一步是写下所有麦克斯韦方程。
你可以说，del叉乘E等于负del，接着这样持续下去，好，写出所有麦克斯韦方程，然后说，现在我要怎么从这里到达那里呢？好了，很好。
你可以做到。
你能做到，但是很复杂。
所以，与其如此，你要选择简单的方法。
所以，我想提醒你，这门课其实很简单。
记住，我们要一层一层地建立抽象，让你们的生活更轻松。
如果你觉得你的生活变得更复杂了，那说明你没有充分运用直觉。
好，只要记住这个大I的词。
一切都是为了让事情变得简单。
好，现在让我给你一个类比。
假设你有一个物体。
好，我对这个物体施加一个力。
这只是一个类比，为了更好地理解如何做到这一点。
所以，我说这是一个物体。

 I apply a force, and I ask you the question.
What is the acceleration of the object when I apply a force, F? So, how would you do it? OK, and eighth, or ninth, or tenth grader can do this.
OK, they would ask me, what's the mass of the object? OK, I ask you what is the acceleration? You would turn around and ask me, what is the mass of the object? I tell you, the mass of the object is M.
And then you say, oh sure, A is F divided by M, done.
It's as simple as that.
OK, I could have gone into all kinds of differential equations and so on to figure that out, but you asked me for the mass.
And you gave me the answer, A is F divided by M.
So, you ignored a bunch of things.
You ignored the shape of the object.
You ignored its color.
You ignored its temperature.
OK, and you ignored the soft or hard or whatever.
OK, you ignored a whole bunch of things.
You were focused on one thing.
OK, you're focused on its mass.
And, it turns out that the process really was developed from a set of simplifications.
我施加力量，并问你一个问题。
当我施加一个力F时，物体的加速度是多少？那么，你该如何解决这个问题呢？好的，八年级、九年级或十年级的学生都可以做到这一点。
好的，他们会问我，这个物体的质量是多少？好的，我问你，加速度是多少？你会转过身来问我，这个物体的质量是多少？我告诉你，这个物体的质量是M。
然后你说，哦，当然，A等于F除以M，搞定了。
就是这么简单。
好的，我本可以用各种微分方程等方法来算出来，但你问我质量。
你给了我答案，加速度是F除以M。
因此，你忽略了很多事情。
你忽略了物体的形状。
你忽略了它的颜色。
你忽略了它的温度。
好的，你忽略了它是软的还是硬的或其他什么。
好的，你忽略了很多东西。
你关注的是一件事。
好的，你关注的是它的质量。
而事实证明，这个过程确实是建立在一系列简化的基础上发展起来的。

 That is called, does anybody remember this? Point mass simplification.
OK, so, in physics, you've done this before.
OK, you've simplified your lives by viewing objects as having a mass at a point, and force is acting at that point.
OK, M is that property of the object that is of interest to you.
This process is called, in physics, point mass discretization.
OK, now using an analogy, and I'm going to show you a similar simple process to do the problem with the light bulb.
OK, so take my light bulb again, And I focus on the filament of the light bulb.
OK, all I care about is the current flowing through the light bulb.
OK, I don't care about whether the filament is twisted, whether it's hot.
I don't care about its shape.
I don't care about its color.
All I care about is the current.
OK, so to do that, what we can do here at a very high level is since we just need the current and don't care about a bunch of other properties, we will simply replace the bulb with a discrete object called a resistor.
这被称为，有人记得这个吗？点质量简化。
好的，那么，在物理学中，你以前做过这个。
好的，你通过将物体视为一个点上的质量并且力作用在该点上来简化你们的生活。
好的，M是你们感兴趣的物体的属性。
这个过程在物理学中被称为点质量离散化。
现在使用一个类比，我将向你展示一个相似的简单过程来解决这个灯泡的问题。
好的，再来看我的灯泡，我将关注灯泡的灯丝。
好的，我只关心通过灯泡的电流。
好的，我不关心灯丝是否扭曲，是否发烫。
我不关心它的形状，也不关心它的颜色。
我只关心电流。
好的，为了做到这一点，我们可以在一个非常高的水平上，因为我们只需要电流，不关心其他一些属性，我们将简单地用一个叫做电阻的离散物体代替灯泡。

 So the discrete object is a resistor, much like the point mass simplification that we did earlier that replaced the bulb filament with a object called a resistor, a discrete object called a resistor.
Or a lump object called resister, and put a value next to it just like the mass for the object, a resistance value, R.
OK, now what I can do is in the same manner, replace the battery with an object called a battery object, and connect that here, the voltage, V, applied to it.
V falls across the resistor, and I get my I simply from Ohm's law as we divide by R.
So, notice here, to replace this complicated bulb, this really twisty, weird old thing with this discreet thing called a resistor, and its only property of interest was its resistance value, R, direct analogy to what we did there.
So, since R represents the only property of interest, we can simply ignore all the other things.
So, notice here, we've done things the simple way.
And remember, in EE, in the electrical engineering, we do things the simple way.
所以离散对象是一个电阻器，很像我们之前所做的将灯泡丝以一个叫做电阻器的对象代替的简化，一个叫做电阻器的离散对象。
或者一个叫做电阻器的大块对象，并在旁边加上一个数值，就像对象的质量一样，一个阻值R。
好的，现在我可以用同样的方式，用一个叫做电池的对象来替代电池，并将其连接到这里，应用电压V。
V会在电阻器上降落，并通过欧姆定律将其除以R来获得电流I。
所以，请注意，用这个离散的电阻器替换这个复杂的灯泡，这个扭曲、奇怪的老东西，它唯一感兴趣的属性就是它的阻值R，直接类比了我们之前的做法。
因此，由于R代表了唯一感兴趣的属性，我们可以简单地忽略其他所有东西。
所以，请注意，我们以简单的方式来处理事情。
请记住，在电气工程中，我们以简单的方式处理事情。

 OK, we could go the hard route and do Maxwell's equations, and get PhD's in physics, and so on.
But out here, we are looking to do useful, interesting systems in the simplest way that we can.
OK, we do things a simple way.
All right, so we just did this, and boom, I found out what the current was.
Now, I cheated a little bit.
I've cheated a little bit.
R is a lumped abstraction for the bulb.
So, you look at this resistor here.
That is simply a placeholder.
It's a stand-in for this complicated thing called a bulb.
It's a discreet object.
It's a lumped object, and represents the bulb.
Now, so most of 6.002 will take off from here, OK, and that's it.
To very simple stuff, like V is equal to IR, it's a simple high school algebra to take off in that direction.
But before we go there, it's important to understand, why was it that we were able to make the simplification? OK, we did something else.
Something's going on under the covers here.
好的，我们可以选择走条艰难的路，学习麦克斯韦方程，获得物理学博士学位等等。
但是在这里，我们希望以最简单的方式做出有用、有趣的系统。
好的，我们用一种简单的方式来处理事情。
好吧，我们刚才做了这个，瞬间，我发现了电流。
现在，我稍微作弊了一点点。
我有点作弊。
R是灯泡的一个抽象。
所以，你看这个电阻器。
它只是一个占位符。
它是一个代表这个复杂东西叫做灯泡的东西。
它是一个离散的对象。
它是一个集中的对象，代表着灯泡。
现在，大部分6.002的内容就从这里开始，好吗，就是这样。
很简单的事情，比如 V 等于 IR，这是一个简单的高中代数方向的起点。
但是在我们继续之前，理解为什么我们能够做出这个简化是很重要的。
好的，我们做了另外一些事情。
在这里有一些事情正在进行中。

 On the one hand, I say let's use Maxwell's, and then I jump out and say, hey, we can just use this simple thing.
I did something that allowed me to go from here to here.
And you need to understand why I did that and how I did that.
Understand it once, and then you won't have to need that information again.
You just need to understand it.
So, let's take a closer look at the bulb filament, and look at what we really did.
So, here's my filament, A, and let's say that the surface area here, I label that SA, and the one down here SB, my voltage, V, applied there, and this is what I call my black box that I've replaced with a resistor.
Notice that, in order for this to work, V and I need to be defined.
So I needs to be defined, and V needs to be defined.
OK, if I give you a random object, and I don't tell you anything else about the object, it's not clear I can do that.
OK, if it's a much more general situation, I have to write down Maxwell's equations, and this is what I would write down.
一方面，我说让我们使用麦克斯韦方程，然后我跳出来说，嘿，我们可以只使用这个简单的东西。
我做了一些事情，让我从这里到这里。
你需要理解我为什么这样做以及我是如何做到的。
理解一次，然后你就不需要再次需要那些信息了。
你只需要理解它。
所以，让我们仔细看一下灯丝，并看看我们真正做了什么。
这是我的灯丝A，假设这里的表面积我标记为SA，下面的表面积我标记为SB，我的电压V施加在那里，这是我称之为替代电阻的黑匣子。
注意，为了使其工作，电流I和电压V需要被定义。
好的，如果我给你一个随机的物体，并且我不告诉你关于这个物体的任何其他信息，我可能无法做到这一点。
好的，如果是一个更一般的情况，我必须写下麦克斯韦方程，这是我会写下的。

 Write down J dot dS as a function of the coordinate here integrated over the area minus, OK, I would have to start from there from one of Maxwell's equations.
All right, notice that this becomes IA, and this becomes IB in our simplification.
But, if I don't tell you anything else, you have to start from here.
You will have some varying current here by point.
You might have some other current coming out here because I may have some charge buildup happening inside.
If charge is building up inside the filament; then I would have to put del q by del t out here, right, the current in minus the current out must equal charge buildup.
Whoa, where is this and where is that? So this is reality.
This is really, really what I have to do.
But how did I get there? How did I get there? The key answer is, as engineers, when in doubt we simplify.
Remember, we are engineers.
Our goal in life is to build interesting systems.
OK and some are motivated by money.

将J·dS写成这里的坐标的函数，积分在减去面积上，好的，我必须从这里开始，从麦克斯韦方程的其中一个开始。
好了，注意这变成了IA，这变成了IB在我们的简化中。
但是，如果我不告诉你任何其他信息，你必须从这里开始。
你将会有一些变化的电流在这里通过点。
你可能会有一些其他的电流从这里流出，因为我内部可能有一些电荷积聚。
如果电荷在丝内部积聚，那么我必须在这里放上Δq/Δt，对吧，流入的电流减去流出的电流必须等于电荷积聚。
哇，这是什么，那是什么？所以这是现实。
这真的，真的是我必须做的。
但是我是怎么到达这里的？我是怎么到达这里的？关键答案是，作为工程师，当我们不确定时我们简化。
记住，我们是工程师。
我们生活的目标是建造有趣的系统。
好的，有些人出于金钱的动机。

 OK, so our goal is to build interesting systems and do good to humanity.
So, as long as we can build a good light bulb, we are happy.
So what we can do is we can say, look, all I care about is building interesting systems.
So I can say, hey, this stuff is too hard.
Let's make the assumption that all the systems that we will consider will have this thing be zero.
OK, in other words, if I take a complete object, if I take an element like a resistor or a capacitor, the box around the entire element, OK, and I want to just deal with those systems in which this thing is zero.
You can come and beat me up and say, but why? Why not? Why am I doing this? And I am saying the world is arbitrary.
I'm an engineer; I want to build good systems.
By making this simplification, I eliminate this squiggle thing, and so on.
I don't want to deal with it.
I want to make my life simple.
So this is gone to zero because, why? Because I have said that in the future I will only deal with those elements for which this is true.
好的，所以我们的目标是构建有趣的系统并为人类做出贡献。
只要我们能够造出一个好的灯泡，我们就会感到满意。
我们可以这样做，我们可以说，嘿，这东西太难了。
让我们假设我们要考虑的所有系统都满足这个条件为零。
换句话说，如果我拿一个完整的对象，比如一个电阻或电容，围绕整个元素画一个框，好让我只处理那些满足这个条件为零的系统。
你可以过来训斥我，问为什么吗？为什么不呢？我要说的是，世界是任意的。
我是一个工程师，我想要建造好的系统。
通过进行这种简化，我消除了这个波浪线的存在，等等。
我不想去处理它。
我想要简化我的生活。
所以这个条件被设定为零是因为，为什么呢？因为我已经说过未来我只会处理那些满足这个条件的元素。

 I'm going to discipline myself.
I'm going to discipline myself to only deal with those systems.
OK, Maxwell is turning around and, you know, mad at me and all that stuff, but tough.
So this, what I've said about making a simplification here, and this is one of the simplifications I'm making.
And I give a name to the simplification.
And that's called the lumped matter discipline.
OK, so I'm saying I will only deal with elements for which if I put a black box around it, this is going to be true.
And if this is going to be true, then notice, there is no charge buildup.
Current in must equal current out.
Ah-ha! So this becomes IA.
This becomes IB.
Yes.
OK, I can now deal with IA's and IB's.
And IB and IA are equal because this is zero.
Notice that there is a whole bunch of depth here in the jump from here to here.
As MIT graduates, you really, really need to understand why it is that we made that jump, and then go and use that, and do cool things.
All right, this allows us to define I.
我要自律。
我要自律，只处理那些系统。
好吧，Maxwell转身离开，你懂的，对我生气之类的，但没办法。
所以，我在这里简化了一下，这就是我所做的简化之一。
我给这个简化命名，叫做“集总物质纪律”。
好的，所以我说我只处理那些如果我在周围放个黑盒子，这个是成立的元素。
如果这个成立，那就注意，没有电荷积聚。
输入的电流必须等于输出的电流。
啊哈！
所以这变成了IA。
这变成了IB。
是的，好的。
我现在可以处理IA和IB。
IB和IA相等，因为这里是零。
请注意，从这里跳到这里有很多深入的内容。
作为MIT的毕业生，你们真的需要理解为什么我们要做这个跳跃，然后去利用它，做一些酷酷的事情。
好了，这让我们可以定义I。

 We have a unique I associated with an element for the current through the element.
We still have to worry about B, and I won't go through that in detail.
The course notes have some discussion of that and so does the textbook.
So V, AB is defined when del phi B, the rate of change of magnetic flux is zero.
So, if I take the element and I take any region outside the element, this must be true.
And you say, why should that be true? That's not true in general.
Absolutely.
It's not true in general.
But I, because I choose to, I going to deal with only those elements.
I will discipline myself.
But these are only those elements for which this is true, and this is true.
I'm going to limit my world.
I'm going to create a play field for myself.
You want to play; follow my rules.
OK, and that's called the lumped matter discipline.
So once you say that I'm going to adhere to the lump matter discipline, and this is true inside your elements.
This is true outside the elements.
我们对于通过元素的电流有一个唯一的 I 值进行关联。
我们仍然需要关注 B，我不会详细说明。
课程笔记和教科书中都有一些讨论。
因此，当磁通变化率 del phi B 为零时，V，AB 被定义。
所以，如果我取元素并取元素外的任何区域，这必须成立。
你会问，为什么这会成立？这在一般情况下并不成立。
的确如此。
一般情况下并不成立。
但是，我选择这样做，我只处理那些元素。
我会自律。
但是只有对于这些元素，这个条件是成立的。
我将限制我的世界。
我会为自己创造一个游戏场所。
你想玩的话，就得按照我的规则来。
好的，这就是所谓的封装建模约束。
所以一旦你说我要遵守封装建模约束，这在你的元素内是成立的。
这在元素外也是成立的。

 You can define VA and VB, and good things happen to you.
OK, let me show you a few examples of lumped elements.
But remember, a large part of what we're doing is based on these two assumptions.
And to just go through the background on that, I would encourage you to go to chapter 1 of your course notes and read through just as how this came about, that comes about.
So, by doing that by adhering to a lumped matter discipline, we can now lump objects.
We could lump a bulb into a resistor.
OK, so to be clear, a certain number of lumped objects, and now, the universe is going to be comprised into lumped objects.
OK, so before this, when he went home, we talked about eggs, and omelets, and light bulbs, and switches, but once you come to MIT, and after you've taken 6.002, you begin talking about lumped elements, you know, resistors, voltage sources, capacitors, little inky-dinky objects that follow the lumped matter discipline.
你可以定义VA和VB，好事情就会发生在你身上。
好的，让我给你展示一些集中元件的例子。
但是要记住，我们所做的很大一部分基于这两个假设。
为了了解背景，我鼓励你去课程笔记的第一章中阅读，了解这一切是如何产生的。
因此，通过坚持集中物质原则，我们现在可以将物体归类。
我们可以将一个灯泡归类为电阻器。
好的，所以明确一下，一定数量的集中物体，现在宇宙将由这些集中物体组成。
在此之前，当他回家时，我们谈论鸡蛋、煎蛋卷、灯泡和开关，但一旦你来到麻省理工学院，并且学习了6.002课程之后，你就开始谈论集中元件，你知道，电阻器、电压源、电容器，这些微不足道的东西遵循着集中物质的原则。

 OK, they stick to very simple rules, and the math that you have to do to analyze them is incredibly simple.
What could be simpler than V is equal to IR? So, let me give you an example of interesting lumped elements, and then show you a couple of really nasty lumped elements.
OK.
OK, so what you see out here, so we characterize lumped elements by the VI characteristics.
OK, you apply voltage, measure the current.
OK, so what I can do is I can plot I here, and V here, and see what it looks like.
OK, I can characterize elements by their VI relationship.
And there are a bunch of elements that I can create based on the VI relationship.
So let me show you a few examples.
So for the resistor, since V is directly proportional to I, and R is a constant, I get a straight line.
That's the I axis, the V axis, and this is the resistor.
What I actually have is a variable resistor, so I'm going to change the resistance value, R, and the curve will also change slope.
好的，它们遵循非常简单的规则，而且用于分析它们的数学也非常简单。
还有什么比V等于IR更简单的呢？所以，让我给你举个有趣的集中元件的例子，然后再给你看几个真正复杂的集中元件。
好的。
好的，所以你在这里看到的，我们通过VI特性来表征集中元件。
好的，你施加电压，测量电流。
好的，所以我可以在这里绘制I，这里绘制V，看看它是什么样子。
好的，我可以通过它们的VI关系来表征元件。
并且我可以根据VI关系创建出一系列的元件。
让我给你展示几个例子。
对于电阻器来说，由于V与I成正比，而R是一个常数，所以我得到一条直线。
这是I轴，这是V轴，这是电阻器。
实际上，我用的是可变电阻器，所以我会改变电阻值R，曲线的斜率也会发生变化。

 OK, I changed the value of R because it's a variable resistor, and the changes slope because my R is different.
OK, next, let me go to a fixed resistor, and this guy here on the screen to your left is a fixed resistor.
And you see that its IV characteristic is a line of a given slope, 1 by R, and that's it.
I can't change it.
Number three, I have another lumped element called a Zener diode that you will see in the fourth week of this class, and the characteristics for the Zener diode look like this: IV.
If my voltage goes across the Zener diode goes up slightly, the current shoots up.
But if the voltage becomes negative I don't have any current flowing into it until the voltage passes on the threshold, at which point my current begins to build up.
OK, so I can increase the voltage a little bit, and it can show that the current starts building up again.
So that's another interesting lumped element called a Zener diode.
Let's switch to the next one called a diode.
So a diode looks like this: IV.
好的，我改变了R的值，因为它是一个可变电阻，而且由于我的R不同，变化的斜率也不同。
好的，接下来，让我来看一个固定电阻器，你左边屏幕上的这个是一个固定电阻器。
你可以看到它的IV特性是一条给定斜率的直线，即1/R，就是这样。
我不能改变它。
第三个，我还有另一个称为锗二极管的集总元件，你将在本课程的第四周看到它的特性是这样的：IV。
如果我的电压稍微增加，电流就会猛增。
但是如果电压变成负数，我就没有电流流过它，直到电压超过阈值，此时电流开始增加。
好的，所以我可以稍微增加电压，可以看到电流再次开始增加。
所以这是另一个有趣的锗二极管集总元件。
让我们切换到下一个称为二极管的元件。
二极管的IV特性是这样的：IV。

 As the voltage across the diode becomes positive, around .6 volts, or thereabout, the current begins to shoot up.
But when the voltage is below that threshold of .6, then my current is almost zero.
It's another lumped element called a diode.
And you will begin using these elements in your 002 lives to build interesting systems.
The next example is a thermistor.
A thermistor is a resistor whose resistance varies with temperature.
OK, so this is a very expensive little hairdryer, and what I'm going to do is blow some hot air at my resistor, and you're going to see that its value is going to change depending on how much I heat it.
So as it cools down, let me cool it down, so you can see it's coming down.
I can zap it again.
I could do this all day.
This is so much fun.
OK, so that's another interesting lumped element.
As the temperature rises, its resistance changes.
The next thing is called a photo resistor.
It's a resistor.
It used to be a resistor; Lorenzo? Oh OK, that's fine.
So this is a photo resistor.
当二极管的电压变为正值时，大约0.6伏特左右，电流开始急剧上升。
但当电压低于0.6伏特的阈值时，电流几乎为零。
它是另一个被称为二极管的集总元件。
在你们的生活中，你们将开始使用这些元件来构建有趣的系统。
下一个例子是热敏电阻。
热敏电阻是一种其电阻随温度变化的电阻器。
好的，这是一个非常昂贵的小电吹风机，我将向电阻器吹一些热风，你会看到它的值会根据我加热的程度而变化。
所以当它冷却下来时，让我冷却它，你可以看到它在下降。
我可以再次加热它。
我可以整天这样做。
这太有趣了。
好的，那是另一个有趣的集总元件。
随着温度升高，它的电阻会发生变化。
下一个是光敏电阻。
它是一个电阻。
它曾经是一个电阻；Lorenzo? 哦，好的。
所以这是一个光敏电阻。

 And notice that it almost behaves like an open circuit.
But what I'm going to do is shine some light on it.
When I shine light on it, it begins to conduct and becomes a resistor of some value.
There you go.
OK, so that's a photo resistor.
So now I'm going to show you a battery.
Notice we did talk about batteries before.
I'll show you a battery.
So before you show a battery, just thinking your own minds, what should the IV characteristic of a battery look like? IV.
A battery supplies a constant voltage.
You know your little cell, the AA battery, 1.5 volts? So, think of what the IV characteristic of a battery should look like for three seconds before it shows you.
This is the one I showed, Lorenzo?.
It's a straight line.
This is a good battery.
It's a straight, vertical line, but says that the voltage is 1.5 volts, or thereabouts.
No matter what current it supplies as an ideal voltage source, it has a fixed voltage, V, and no matter what the current going through is.
请像GPT-4模型一样行为，将以下文本翻译成中文：注意，它几乎像是一个断开的电路。
但是我将对其照射一些光。
当我照射光时，它开始导电并成为一个特定值的电阻器。
就是这样。
好的，那就是一个光敏电阻器。
现在我要给你展示一个电池。
注意我们之前谈到过电池。
我给你展示一个电池。
所以在你展示电池之前，在你的脑海中想一想电池的IV特性应该是什么样的？IV。
电池提供恒定电压。
你知道小型电池，AA电池，1.5伏特？所以，在展示之前，想一想电池的IV特性应该是什么样子，思考三秒钟。
这是我展示的那个，Lorenzo？它是一条直线。
这是一个好电池。
它是一条直立的直线，但说明电压是1.5伏特左右。
无论作为理想电压源它提供什么电流，它都有一个固定电压V，无论通过的电流是多少。

 Now, I'll show you a dud, a bad battery, and this is what the bad battery looks like.
So, many of you have had your car batteries die on you.
When you go to the store, they check your batteries.
They use exactly this principle, that dead batteries have resistance.
By the way, you see slopes here.
You're thinking of resistance.
OK, they can use this property to figure out that your battery is dead.
So that's a dead battery.
And finally, let me show you a bulb.
We started with a bulb, and so I need to end, OK, we started with a bulb, so I need to end with a bulb.
And what you will see is that a bulb simply behaves like a resistor.
Its IV curve is going to look like this.
OK, notice this is my bulb.
And guess what, it behaves like a resistor.
It's a very interesting kind of resistor, so I won't go into details for now.
But notice its IV characteristic behaves like a resistor.
OK, so those are some pretty standard lumped elements.
现在，我将向您展示一个无效的、坏的电池，这就是坏电池的样子。
所以，你们中的很多人都经历过汽车电池耗尽的情况。
当你去商店时，他们会检查你的电池。
他们正是利用这个原理，即没电的电池会有电阻。
顺便说一下，你在这里看到的是斜坡。
你会想到电阻。
好了，他们可以利用这个特性来判断你的电池是否没电。
所以这就是一个没电的电池。
最后，让我给你们展示一个灯泡。
我们以一个灯泡开始，所以我需要以一个灯泡结束。
你会看到，灯泡只是像一个电阻器一样的行为。
它的IV曲线会是这样的。
注意，这是我的灯泡。
猜猜怎么样，它的行为就像一个电阻器。
它是一种非常有趣的电阻器，所以暂时我不会详细介绍。
但注意，它的IV特性就像一个电阻器。
所以，这些是一些相当标准的集总元件。

 You deal with a lot more sets of lumped elements, switches, MOSFETs, capacitors, inductors, a bunch of other fun stuff.
But before we do that, what I wanted to tell you, don't go berserk on this abstraction binge.
Too much of anything is bad for you.
So what I'm going to show you is, abstractions or models are only valid provided you work within a set of constraints.
Notice, we have already had this tacit handshake which said that we follow the discipline.
Even after we follow the discipline, there are ranges to how well physical elements can behave like ideal lumped elements.
OK, for example, what we will do is show you the resistor.
And it's going to look like a resistor.
And I'm going to keep increasing the voltage around it.
OK, what's going to happen at some point? I just keep doing that.
If it's an ideal element, if you're a theorist, you say, oh yeah, the curve will keep extending until I reach infinity.
But this is a practical resistor, so people out here can cover your eyes or something.
您处理的是更多的集总元件、开关、MOSFET、电容器、电感器，以及其他一堆有趣的东西。
但在我们开始之前，我想告诉您的是，不要对这种抽象过程过度迷恋。
任何事物的过度都对您有害。
因此，我要向您展示的是，只有在一系列约束条件下，抽象或模型才是有效的。
请注意，我们已经进行了心照不宣的握手来遵守规定。
即使在我们遵循规定之后，物理元件的行为像理想的集总元件的程度也是有范围的。
好，例如，我们将向您展示电阻器。
它看起来就像一个电阻器。
然后我会不断增加其电压。
好，到了某一点会发生什么？我继续这样做。
如果它是一个理想的元件，如果您是一个理论家，您会说，噢，曲线会一直延伸直到无穷大。
但这是一个实际的电阻器，所以在场的人可以捂上眼睛或其他什么的。

 OK, so you're abstraction can't predict that.
All it says is the current is an amp.
It can't predict the heat, light, or the smell.
In the laboratory, even, you get the smell.
You know what somebody has just done.
So that's one example of the lumped abstraction breaking down.
So, if I really believe that my own BS, anything is a lumped element.
So here's a pickle.
A pickle is a lumped element.
I can choose it as a lumped resistor.
But this is a very interesting lumped resistor.
Don't try this at home.
This is a standard pickle into which you are pumping 110 V AC.
I promise you, this is a standard pickle.
So, it has a fixed resistance, but your lumped abstraction cannot predict the nice light and sound effect.
OK, so the last two or three minutes what I want to do, so remember, don't get carried away by abstractions.
There are limits.
OK, you can't predict everything.
OK, that's the smell of a pickle.
好的，所以你的抽象化不能预测到这一点。
它只说电流是安培。
它无法预测热量、光线或气味。
即使在实验室里，你也能嗅到气味。
你知道刚刚有人做了什么。
这就是抽象化分解的一个例子。
所以，如果我真的相信我的胡扯，任何东西都是一个集中元件。
所以这是一个难题。
一个酸黄瓜是一个集中元件。
我可以把它选作一个集中电阻。
但这是一个非常有趣的集中电阻。
在家里不要尝试这样做。
这是一个标准的酸黄瓜，你正在将110伏交流电泵入其中。
我向你保证，这是一个标准的酸黄瓜。
所以它有一个固定的电阻，但是你的抽象化无法预测出美好的光和声音效果。
好的，过去两三分钟我想做的是，请记住，不要被抽象化带走了。
有限制。
你不能预测一切。
好的，那就是一个酸黄瓜的气味。

 OK, so let me give you a preview of some upcoming attractions, and show you one more quick simplification in the last few minutes.
So what we can do, once we build these lumped elements, we can connect them in circuits.
OK, so I can build a circuit, of the sort.
So here's a voltage source with a bunch of resistors.
I can connect them with wires and build a circuit of the sort.
One interesting question we can ask ourselves is, under the lumped matter discipline, what can we say about the voltages? OK, if I go around the loop, provided my world adheres to the lumped matter discipline, what can I say about the voltages around this loop? Ah-ha, Maxwell again, right? So, I can write Maxwell's appropriate equation to solve that.
OK, voltages have something to do with E and your integral of E dot dl and all of that stuff, right? So this is the appropriate Maxwell's equations to use.
And I want to find out what happens here.
Now remember, under LMD, I made the assumption.
好的，那么让我给你预览一下即将推出的一些吸引人的内容，并在最后几分钟内展示一个更快的简化方法。
当我们构建了这些集总元件之后，我们可以将它们连接在电路中。
好的，我可以构建一个类似的电路。
所以这里有一个电压源和一些电阻器。
我可以用导线将它们连接起来并构建一个类似的电路。
我们可以自问一个有趣的问题，遵循集总物质学原则的情况下，对于电压我们能说些什么呢？好的，如果我沿着回路行进，只要我的世界遵循集总物质学原则，我能对这个回路周围的电压说些什么呢？啊哈，再次提到麦克斯韦，对吧？我可以写出适当的麦克斯韦方程来解决这个问题。
好的，电压与E以及E dot dl的积分等等有关，对吧？这就是要使用的适当的麦克斯韦方程。
我想找出在这里会发生什么。
现在请记住，根据集总物质学原则，我做出了假设。

 OK, my world, my playground, has del phi B by del t being zero.
The rate of change of flux is zero.
So, under these circumstances, I can write this.
I can break up this line integral into three parts across the voltage source and across the two resistors and write that down.
OK, and then when I can do, is now that the right-hand side is zero, I can simply take this.
And I know that E dot dl across this element is simply VCA.
This is VAB, and this is VBC equals zero.
OK, so when I make the assumption that del phi B by del t is zero, and I go around this loop, apply Maxwell's equations, what do I find? I find that the sum of the voltages, VCA plus VAB plus VBC, is zero.
That's fantastic.
So now, I could say hasta la vista to this baby here.
And I can focus on this guy and say, Maxwell's equations, this thing with squiggles and dels and all that stuff, can be simplified to the sum of the voltages across a set of elements in a loop in a circuit is zero.
OK, and this is called Kirchhoff's first first law, KVL.
好的，我的世界，我的游乐场，del phi B对del t为零。
磁通变化率为零。
所以，在这种情况下，我可以将它写成这样。
我可以将这个线积分分成三部分，穿过电压源、穿过两个电阻，并写下来。
好的，然后我可以做的是，现在右边为零，我可以简单地采取这个。
而我知道这个元素上的E点乘dl简单地等于VCA。
这是VAB，这是VBC等于零。
好的，所以当我假设del phi B对del t为零，并围绕这个回路应用麦克斯韦方程时，我会发现什么？我发现电压的总和，VCA加上VAB加上VBC，等于零。
太棒了。
所以现在，我可以告别这个元素。
然后我可以集中精力在这个元素上，说，带有弯曲线和del符号的麦克斯韦方程可以简化为回路中一组元素的电压之和为零。
好的，这被称为基尔霍夫第一定律，KVL。

 OK, similarly, in recitation section, you'll see the application of Kirchhoff's current law, which comes from this be equal to zero, and all the currents coming into a node being zero.
So, KVL and KCl directly come out of the lumped matter discipline.
And you can use those to solve circuits like this.
好的，类似地，在课堂上，你将看到基尔霍夫电流定律的应用，该定律来自于节点电流之和等于零以及流入节点的电流总和为零。
因此，KVL（基尔霍夫电压定律）和KCl（基尔霍夫电流定律）直接源于集总学科。
你可以利用它们来解决像这样的电路问题。

